customer obsession
Ownership
Bias for Action
Have backbone, Disagree and commit
Invent and Simplify
Dive Deep
Are right, A lot
Deliver Results
Think Big
Hire and Develop the best
Frugality
Learn and be curious
Earn Trust

2.1 Amazon behavioral questions: Top 5
First, we wanted to highlight the most common behavioral questions that Amazon asks across every role we’ve studied. It is very likely that you’ll be asked at least one of these questions. You’ll see that regardless of the role, Amazon is curious about why you want to work for them specifically, how you face setbacks, and whether you’re willing to stand up for your ideas.

Here are the questions.

Example behavioral questions asked at Amazon: Top 5

Q. Why Amazon?
A. (Scale, Impact, Better opportunity) Through my experince with my collegues working in Amazon I have found that the scale at which Amazon works is huge, there aren't my Companies working on such huge projects, also the products and the services which amazon provides have huge impact on people's lives, you don't get to work on such projects in any other companies, and finally I will get a better oppurtunity in Amazon to showcase my potential. 

Q. Tell me about a time you failed at work. What did you learn from it?
A. (responsibility, accountibility, take away) When I started my first project with crystalball team, I was given a task to complete and they asked me to provide a deadline for it, the task was actually to make a User infterface, I was aware of how to make a User Interface and therefore I thought it would be easy to make one, so I gave them a short deadline. Later while I was working on the task, many of the small details which I overlooked in my deadline estimation analysis, started to unfold, later I missed my deadline, but my team was supportive enough and to help me out, they provided me with external support to complete my project as soon as possible.
The important thing I learned was to do a in depth analysis, before giving any sort of deadline. 

Tell me about a challenge you faced. What was your role & the outcome?
A. () while training my Deep NN for NeRF project, due to high data size and lack of compatible hardware, I have to use some non-conventional apporaches to perform train on local machine, I have to do several optimizations to make training faster within reach of memory, such as model compatibility, hybrid inversamplnig.

Tell me about a time you disagreed with a coworker / manager / decision
A. (leadership, negotiation skill, commit) While designing ACL system for internal usage, my collegue and I had a disagreement on ACL Database design, he much baised towards denormalized DB and I was biased towards a bit of normalized DB, later to convience my collegue I explained him the limitation we are going to face in future with denormalized approach and how with little normalization we can have best of both worlds.

Q. Tell me about a time you had to work or make a decision quickly / under a tight deadline
A. 

2.2 Amazon behavioral questions: Customer obsession
“Leaders start with the customer and work backwards. They work vigorously to earn and keep customer trust. Although leaders pay attention to competitors, they obsess over customers.”

These questions are all about empathy. Interviewers want to see that you understand the consequences that every decision has on customer experience. You need to know who the customer is as well as their underlying needs.

Example behavioral questions asked at Amazon: Customer obsession

Tell me about one of your projects where you put the customer first
Tell me about a time you had to deal with a difficult customer
Which company has the best customer service and why?
Describe a time when a customer asked you for one thing, but you knew that they needed something else
2.3 Amazon behavioral questions: Ownership
“Leaders are owners. They think long term and don’t sacrifice long-term value for short-term results. They act on behalf of the entire company, beyond just their own team. They never say 'that’s not my job.'"

To work at Amazon, you can’t be a person who thinks, “That’s not my job!” when facing a task that needs to get done. When answering ownership questions, you’ll want to prove that you take initiative, can make tough decisions, and accept responsibility for your mistakes.

Example behavioral questions asked at Amazon: Ownership

Q. Tell me about a time you did something at work that wasn't your responsibility / in your job description.
A.

Q. Tell me about a time when you went over and above your job responsibility in order to help the company.
A. electrical eng hu mai

Q. Tell me about a time when you had to make an important decision without approval from your boss.
How would you make Amazon.com better?
2.4 Amazon behavioral questions: Bias for action
“Bias for Action — Speed matters in business. Many decisions and actions are reversible and do not need extensive study. We value calculated risk taking.”

Amazon likes to learn by doing, with an eye on results over user projections and research.  This is part of what helps them act quickly and ship their products to customers as fast as they do. So your interviewer will want to see that you can take calculated risks and move things forward.

Example behavioral questions asked at Amazon: Bias for action

Tell me about a time you had to change your approach because you were going to miss a deadline
Tell me about a time you had to make an urgent decision without data. What was the impact and would you do anything differently?
Tell me about a time when you launched a feature with known risks
Did you come across a scenario where the deadline given to you for a project was earlier than expected? How did you deal with it and what was the result?
2.5 Amazon behavioral questions: Have backbone; disagree and commit
"Leaders are obligated to respectfully challenge decisions when they disagree, even when doing so is uncomfortable or exhausting. Leaders have conviction and are tenacious. They do not compromise for the sake of social cohesion. Once a decision is determined, they commit wholly.”

Any group of smart leaders will disagree at some point. Your interviewer will want to see that you know when to challenge ideas and escalate problems to senior leadership if necessary. At the same time, they want to know that you can sense the right time to move forward regardless of your disagreement. Show that you’re capable of striking that balance.

Example behavioral questions asked at Amazon: Have backbone; disagree and commit

Tell me about a time you had a conflict with a coworker or manager and how you approached it
Tell me about a time you had a conflict with your team but decided to go ahead with their proposal
Tell me about a time your work was criticized
2.6 Amazon behavioral questions: Invent and simplify
"Leaders expect and require innovation and invention from their teams and always find ways to simplify. They are externally aware, look for new ideas from everywhere, and are not limited by “not invented here." Because we do new things, we accept that we may be misunderstood for long periods of time.”

In everything it does, Amazon aims to foster a culture of innovation. Answering invent and simplify questions is an opportunity to show your ability to create solutions when there is no obvious answer. You’ll also want to show that you know how to execute big ideas as simply and as cheaply as possible.

Example behavioral questions asked at Amazon: Invent and simplify

Tell me about a time you solved a big problem in your company
Tell me about a time when you had a plan but ran into some obstacles. What did you do about it?
Tell me about at time you re-designed a process and why
What is the most innovative idea you've ever had?
2.7 Amazon behavioral questions: Dive deep
"Leaders operate at all levels, stay connected to the details, audit frequently, and are skeptical when metrics and anecdote differ. No task is beneath them.”

When something isn’t working, Amazon employees need to be able to find solutions quickly. Interviewers want to see that you are excited to dive deep and work out a durable response when problems arise.

Example behavioral questions asked at Amazon: Dive deep

Tell me about a time when you used a lot of data in a short period of time
Tell me about a project in which you had to deep dive into analysis
Tell me about the most complex problem you have worked on
2.8 Amazon behavioral questions: Are right, a lot
"Leaders are right a lot. They have strong judgement and good instincts. They seek diverse perspectives and work to disconfirm their beliefs.”

Amazon expects its employees to produce solutions as quickly as possible and to be capable of making decisions with little information. Show that you know how to take calculated risks and that you're comfortable disproving your own opinions before moving ahead. When describing past failures, show what you’ve learned.

Example behavioral questions asked at Amazon: Are right, a lot

Tell me about a time when you were faced with a problem that had a number of possible solutions. What was the problem and how did you determine the course of action? What was the outcome?
Tell me about a time you applied judgment to a decision when data was not available
Tell me about a time that you failed at work
Tell me how you deal with ambiguity
2.9 Amazon behavioral questions: Deliver results
"Leaders focus on the key inputs for their business and deliver them with the right quality and in a timely fashion. Despite setbacks, they rise to the occasion and never settle.”

Amazon values action over perfection. When answering questions related to delivering results, you’ll want to indicate that you work to avoid slipped deadlines and failed goals. If you have missed deadlines and goals in the past, explain the methods you’ve put in place to avoid this in the future.

Example behavioral questions asked at Amazon: Deliver results

Tell me about the most challenging project you ever worked on
Tell me about a time when you had to handle pressure
Tell me about a time when you had two deadlines at the same time. How did you manage the situation?
How do you prioritize tasks in your current role?
2.10 Amazon behavioral questions: Think big
“Thinking small is a self-fulfilling prophecy. Leaders create and communicate a bold direction that inspires results. They think differently and look around corners for ways to serve customers.”

Amazon is an enormous company, and its employees need to build products and structures that reach significant scale in order to make a difference for the business. As a result, interviewers will want to see that you can develop and articulate a bold vision.

Example behavioral questions asked at Amazon: Think big

Tell me about your most significant accomplishment. Why was it significant?
Tell me about a time you proposed a non-intuitive solution to a problem and how you identified that it required a different way of thinking
What was the largest project you've executed?
2.11 Amazon behavioral questions: Hire and develop the best
"Leaders raise the performance bar with every hire and promotion. They recognize exceptional talent, and willingly move them throughout the organization. Leaders develop leaders and take seriously their role in coaching others. We work on behalf of our people to invent mechanisms for development like Career Choice.”

Amazon wants every new hire to “raise the bar.” Interviewers will want to see that you seek to hire people smarter than you. You should also show you enjoy coaching younger colleagues and know how to get the most out of top performers. This leadership principle is typically discussed in interviews for very senior engineering positions that involve people management or building a team.

Example behavioral questions asked at Amazon: Hire and develop the best

Tell me about a time you provided feedback that was helpful to a peer
Tell me about a time you hired or worked with people smarter than you are
Tell me about a time you stepped in to help a struggling teammate
Who is your best employee / resource, and what makes them the best?
2.12 Amazon behavioral questions: Frugality
"Accomplish more with less. Constraints breed resourcefulness, self-sufficiency, and invention. There are no extra points for growing headcount, budget size, or fixed expense.”

Amazon strives to provide customers with as much value for as little cost as possible. Interviewers will be looking for how you can support this idea while maintaining a constant drive for innovation. 

Example behavioral questions asked at Amazon: Frugality

Tell me about a time you successfully delivered a project without a budget or resources
Tell me about the last time you figured out a way to keep an approach simple or to save on expenses
When managing a budget, what are some ways you get more out of less?
2.13 Amazon behavioral questions: Learn and be curious
“Leaders are never done learning and always seek to improve themselves. They are curious about new possibilities and act to explore them.”

Amazon demands constant improvement in every part of their business. You’ll want to show that you are interested in learning new things and exploring new ideas that can be applied to the job. Some examples listed here are general interview questions, but they provide a perfect opportunity for you to address this principle.

Example behavioral questions asked by Amazon: Learn and be curious

Tell me about a time you taught yourself a skill
Tell me about something you learned that made you better at your job
Tell me about your biggest career failure and what you learned from it
2.14 Amazon behavioral questions: Insist on the highest standards
"Leaders have relentlessly high standards — many people may think these standards are unreasonably high. Leaders are continually raising the bar and drive their teams to deliver high quality products, services, and processes. Leaders ensure that defects do not get sent down the line and that problems are fixed so they stay fixed.”

At Amazon, rarely is anything deemed “good enough.” They’d like to see how you have pushed yourself to reach standards that were difficult to meet, and how you will continue to do so in the future.

Example behavioral questions asked by Amazon: Insist on the highest standards

Tell me about the most successful project you've done
Tell me about a project that you wish you had done better and how you would do it differently today
Tell me a time that a goal was hard to achieve. What did you learn from that?
How would you improve this [project on your resume] if you had more time?
2.15 Amazon behavioral questions: Earn trust
“Leaders listen attentively, speak candidly, and treat others respectfully. They are vocally self-critical, even when doing so is awkward or embarrassing. Leaders do not believe their or their team’s body odor smells of perfume. They benchmark themselves and their teams against the best.”

The key part of this principle that candidates often miss is the “vocally self-critical” detail. Amazon wants its employees to focus on fixing mistakes instead of figuring out who to blame. You’ll want to show that you take action when something is wrong and acknowledge your own faults before resorting to blaming others.

Example behavioral questions asked by Amazon: Earn trust

Tell me a piece of difficult feedback you received and how you handled it
How do you earn trust with a team?
A co-worker constantly arrives late to a recurring meeting. What would you do?
2.16 Amazon behavioral questions: Strive to be Earth’s best employer
"Leaders work every day to create a safer, more productive, higher performing, more diverse, and more just work environment. They lead with empathy, have fun at work, and make it easy for others to have fun. Leaders ask themselves: Are my fellow employees growing? Are they empowered? Are they ready for what's next? Leaders have a vision for and commitment to their employees' personal success, whether that be at Amazon or elsewhere.”

Like the principle “hire and develop the best,” this is more likely to come up in interviews for senior and/or managerial positions. In this case, you’ll want to show that you’ll not only boost your team, but also create a safe, diverse, and just work environment. Essentially, if “hire and develop the best” means picking and training a top team, being “Earth’s best employer” means keeping that team safe, enriched, and engaged once you’ve got them.

Example behavioral questions asked by Amazon: Strive to be Earth’s best employer

Tell me about a time that you went above and beyond for an employee
Tell me about a time you saw an issue that would negatively impact your team. How did you deal with it?
How do you manage a low performer in the team? How do you identify a good performer in the team and help in their career growth?
2.17 Amazon behavioral questions: Success and scale bring broad responsibility
"We started in a garage, but we're not there anymore. We are big, we impact the world, and we are far from perfect. We must be humble and thoughtful about even the secondary effects of our actions. Our local communities, planet, and future generations need us to be better every day. We must begin each day with a determination to make better, do better, and be better for our customers, our employees, our partners, and the world at large. And we must end every day knowing we can do even more tomorrow. Leaders create more than they consume and always leave things better than how they found them.”

Amazon wants its employees to understand the responsibility of working for a vast, impactful company. Show how you measure the impact of your decisions, both in your workspace and in the world around you (e.g. sustainability, justice, etc.). 

Example behavioral questions asked by Amazon: Success and scale bring broad responsibility

Tell me about a time when you made a decision which impacted the team or the company
Tell me about a decision that you made about your work and you regret now
Tell me about a time when you failed to do the right thing
3. How to answer Amazon behavioral interview questions
Now that you’ve seen some of Amazon’s top questions, let’s work on a technique for answering them.

3.1 Technique
When answering behavioral questions, you should focus on your most relevant achievements and communicate them in a clear way. An easy way to achieve this is to use a step-by-step method to tell your stories. 

The STAR method (Situation, Task, Action, Result) is a popular approach for answering behavioral questions because it’s easy to remember. You may have already heard of it. However, we’ve found that candidates often find it difficult to distinguish the difference between steps two and three, or task and action. Some also forget to include lessons learned in the results step, which is especially crucial when discussing past failures.

So we’ve developed the IGotAnOffer method to correct some of the pitfalls we’ve observed when using the STAR method.

3.1.1 IGotAnOffer Method
Let’s step through our suggested five-step approach:

Situation: Start by giving the necessary context of the situation you were in. Describe your role, the team, the organization, the market, etc. You should only give the minimum context needed to understand the problem and the solution in your story. Nothing more.
Problem: Outline the problem you and your team were facing.
Solution: Explain the solution you came up with to solve the problem. Step through how you went about implementing your solution, and focus on your contribution over what the team / larger organization did.
Impact: Summarize the positive results you achieved for your team, department, and organization. As much as possible, quantify the impact.
Lessons: Conclude with any lessons you might have learned in the process.
You’ll notice that this method covers very similar themes to the STAR method. We like it because a lot of the candidates we work with find this framework easier to use, as there’s no overlap between any of the steps in your story.

You should practice using whatever method you’re the most comfortable with. If you’d like to start practicing right away, jump back to the full list of questions here. 

Otherwise, to get a better idea of how our method works, work through the example below.

3.2 Example answer: Tell me about a time you failed at work. What did you learn from it?
Now that you know some approaches for answering behavioral questions, let's look at a full example. We’ll use one of Amazon’s most frequently asked questions. You’ll see that it can be tailored to match a few different leadership principles, such as Ownership, Learn and Be Curious, and Deliver Results.

Try answering the question below following your preferred method. Play both the role of the interviewer and the candidate. Write down your answer, then practice saying it out loud before going through our example response. Once you’ve finished, compare your response to our example to fill in any gaps in your story.

Try this question:
Tell me about a time you failed at work. What did you learn from it?
Answer:
We’ll use the IGotAnOffer method described above and answer as if interviewing for a product manager job at Amazon. You will find our proposed answer to the question below. 

Note that this question isn’t necessarily about a specific role and allows you to describe a variety of situations. We’ll use a generic example, but you should of course use an example from your own work experience.

1. Situation

You could start by saying something like, “In my last position, I was the product manager for a key feature of a new product we were about to launch. My team had been able to roll through research and development ahead of schedule, so I was excited to beat our deadline. In an update with our chief product officer, I told her that we were working quickly and would likely finish a week before the deadline. She was pleased to hear this and rearranged launch dates accordingly.”

Without giving too much detail, this gives a quick sense of the setting you were in. Now we’ll get into the problem.

2. Problem

Once you outline the situation, you can explain the problem by saying something like, “However, I had allowed myself to get swept up in our previous progress and moved up our deadline without fully considering all the factors at play. As we continued work on the launch, it quickly became clear that the final details would take longer than anticipated, and we would not be meeting the earlier deadline.”

Here, you don’t spend too much time describing the situation and problem, but your answer so far has given the interviewer a clear sense of the setting and issue that arose.

3. Solution

When describing the solution you came up with to solve the problem, it’s important to step through your thinking. And it’s especially important to focus on YOUR contribution. 

Of course, this will look a little different for a question asking about a failure, as it would mean you may not have solved the initial problem. However, you can underline the steps you took to address the failure once you realized it.

You could say something such as, “As it was my mistake to move up the deadline, and not my team’s, I took it upon myself to speed up the process. First, we discussed our progress, and I added some of their workload to my plate in order to accomplish everything faster. I worked overtime to take care of the loose ends, then booked a new meeting with the chief product officer. 

I explained to her that I had spoken too hastily, and that we would not meet the new deadline that I had imposed. We reworked the launch plan and returned to the original timeline.

Ultimately, we were able to complete our preparations a couple days before the original launch date, though not a full week ahead like I'd anticipated.”

Let’s take a step back and look at what you’ve shown with this answer. While you are putting on display a big mistake, your work to resolve it shows personal accountability. Instead of blaming the mistake on others, you accept blame and act to fix it. This is a key aspect of Amazon’s Ownership leadership principle.

Also, you went out of your way to speed up the process, working overtime to arrive closer to the due date. This shows that you can Deliver Results, another leadership principle. 

4. Impact

After explaining the actions you took, it’s a good idea to quantify both the impact of the failure itself and how you mitigated it. 

You could say something like, “Clearly, the deadline mixup had some negative repercussions, as the launch date was pushed forward then moved back again. Thankfully, since it only was the earlier deadline I failed to meet, the product was still able to be launched on the original launch date one week later.”

5. Lessons

Finally, wrap up your answer by describing any lessons you might have learned. This is the most important step for a question about a past mistake or failure, as Amazon wants to be sure you know how to avoid that mistake again. Also, constantly learning aligns with the principle Learn and Be Curious.

You could say, “The failure to meet that deadline reminded me to make decisions based on data and observation, not excitement. Also, that the final details of a project are extremely important and shouldn’t be rushed. These were both things I had been aware of before, but I had forgotten them in the excitement over how quickly we were progressing in other areas. Thankfully, since this mistake, I’ve always been meticulous about deadlines, only setting or changing them after I’ve discussed it with the team and considered the repercussions. Thanks to that, I haven’t missed a deadline since. ”

3.3 Tips to impress your interviewer
Finally, before we move on to some interview prep resources, we'd like to give you five helpful tips to keep in mind.

﻿5 tips to impress your interviewer
Get used to setting up the situation in 30 seconds or less: Use a timer while you practice to ensure you provide only necessary information. Spending too much time on the Situation step is one of the most common mistakes candidates make.
Stay focused on essential details: Interviewers hear a lot of behavioral stories a day. If you go into unnecessary details you are likely to lose their attention. Share your stories with a few different people before your interview and ask them what details they would suggest cutting.
Be proud and talk about YOU: This is not the time to be shy about your accomplishments. Concentrate on your impact, not what “the team” did. Not talking about YOU enough is another common mistake we see with a lot of candidates.
Adapt to follow up questions: Don’t be alarmed if your interviewer asks follow up questions; this is perfectly normal. Listen carefully to the way your interviewer is asking these questions, as there will often be a subtle clue about the specific skills they’re looking to assess from the next part of your answer.
Explain how failure made you better: When talking about failure, don’t try to hide your mistakes or frame a weakness as a strength. Instead, show what you learned and how you grew from the failure.
